Welcome to another video. This problem
has given me a lot of problems, but now
I'm going to put it to rest because
I'm here to correct all the mistakes I
made in the past.
The first time I solved this equation
for negative values of x, I made certain
assumptions that I did not say clearly.
And then I made a claim which violated
every law that I know when it comes to
solving equations. So in this video, I'm
going to clarify everything I was
thinking and the things that I said that
were inaccurate and we're going to get
all possible solutions. Let's get into
the video.
[Music]
So the first clarification I want to
make is that it is possible for you to
find the x root of x being equal to 4
and there is a real solution
if you're looking for values of x that
are negative.
However,
we have a lot of restrictions which were
the things I had assumed in my mind when
I started solving this. The first
assumption is that or restriction I
created is that it is impossible for x
to be an odd number because remember
when you take the odd root of a negative
number, it is always a negative number.
And because this is not a negative
number, x cannot be odd. That was my
subconscious assumption.
Okay. So, and it doesn't matter what you
do, you will never get a negative here.
If x is the x root of do you see what
I'm saying? Yeah. If it is the odd root
of any negative number will always be
negative. The fact that this is not
negative tells you that x cannot be an
odd number. It has to be an even number.
So this is a good example and I know
this was one of the examples that were
given as a counter example to my claim
that you can't get any real solution.
Yes, this is true when you're taking an
odd route. But notice that because this
is a negative number, your answer has
got to be negative. However, we have a
positive number on the right hand side.
That means that this cannot be an odd
number. It has got to be an even number
if it exists at all.
Okay. Now, if it were odd, yeah, we will
get a number. For example, if this was
-3, the cube root of -3 does exist.
However, it is not a positive number. It
is a negative number. So, in order to
obtain a positive number, we have to be
dealing with even numbers.
Okay? So
if we rewrite this expression as x the x
root of x if we write it as x to the 1
/x from our laws of exponents we know
that it's equal to 4. Okay. However the
problem with even roots is that you
cannot take the even root of
a negative number.
Do you see that?
We're not going to get real solutions.
In order for you to get a real solution,
for example,
notice
that the square root of -2 is not real.
Okay, we know the fourth root of -4 is
not real. Okay.
In order
to obtain
a real
root,
the exponent here 1 /x must
be
an integer.
So the only way you'll be able to get a
real root
is if this exponent instead of it being
a root is actually a power. So if this
is an integer exponent then we can be
thinking of getting a real number coming
out of this expression. Remember x is a
negative number. So an integer
representing the reciprocal of x would
be a negative integer. So we can say let
since
x is less than zero 1 /x will be some
negative integer. We can use k actually
but I want to use n where n is some
integer. Okay
like that. So n is some
integer some positive integer. So the
negatives don't cancel. That's why I
specified that n is a positive integer.
Okay.
So 1 /x is - n. It means we can go back
and rewrite this equation.
So
x to the 1 /x
=
4 becomes
well we said x is a negative number.
We're going to have if 1 /x is equal to
- n then it means x will be 1 /n. So
this is 1 / - n
raised to power 1 /x which is going to
be n huh equals 4. So now this is the
equation we need to solve and we'll be
able to find the value of n. So here how
do we solve it? In order to get rid of
this negative exponent, you can flip
what is inside here. So I can actually
flip this. So I have n to the n is equal
to 4. But as you can see from just basic
algebraic manipulation, you can rewrite
four as
-2
raised to power 2. So clearly our n is
two. Clearly
n is equal to 2. If n equals 2, we can
find our x. Therefore x will be equal to
what did we say? x =
1 /n. Okay. So x= 1 /n,
which is 1 / -2. Huh.
So x=
-12
is the only real
solution.
Okay. Now this was what I was trying to
explain in the other video. Now how do
you get all the complex solutions? Well,
all the complex solutions will come from
the formula I got from when we were
dealing with the positive ones. It's
just that instead of having x, you'll be
having negativex in your answer. Okay?
So, um from let me put it this way from
previous
uh video.
Yeah, I'm going to do that. This is a
lesson, right? from previous video. Um,
we know
that
all
complex roots
are x sub k where k is any integer which
determine or which are denote the branch
of the lambert w function that you're
using to compute your your answer which
is going to be equal equal to um the
lambert
using whatever branch of I think it was
um natural log of 1 /4 yes
divided by 1 /4
divided by ln
of 1 / 4. So this was the answer that we
had the w of ln of 1 /4 over ln of 1
over4. Now, if what you're dealing with
is for this number, if x is negative,
you just have to put a negative here and
put a negative here. Or just put a
negative here and put a negative inside.
And
for x less than zero, it's this exact
same process. I'm just putting a
negative beside x in my derivation. So
it's going to be x sub k for negative is
going to be equal to minus the w minus
natural log of 1 / 4
divided by
the natural log of 1 / 4. There you go.
And this is for x less than zero. This
is for x greater than zero. The only
difference is that this one has two
minor signs here and this one has no
minus sign.
Never stop learning. Those who stop
learning stop living. Bye-bye.